feat(KNO-13282): Knock hosted preference center custom domain (#1501)
knocklabs/docs: content/manage-your-account/custom-domains.mdx

---
title: Custom domains
description: Learn more about how to configure custom domains for your Knock account to use for link tracking, email open tracking, and the hosted preference center.
tags:
  ["custom domains", "domains", "email", "email tracking", "preference center"]
section: Manage your account
---

Knock supports setting up custom domains for your account to use for [link tracking](/send-notifications/tracking#how-it-works) (including short links in SMS and WhatsApp), [email open tracking](/send-notifications/tracking#email-open-tracking), and the [hosted preference center](/preferences/hosted-preference-center).

Setting a custom domain is important for deliverability and branding. You run the risk of having your messages marked as spam if the sending domain and the domain you're routing to for links are different.

> By default, Knock uses [a variety of domains](/send-notifications/tracking#link-click-tracking-domains) for link tracking, short links in SMS and WhatsApp, and email open tracking, and hosts the preference center at `p.knock.app`. These domains are shared across all accounts and are not configurable. Custom domains enable you to override these defaults and use your own domains.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Knock uses [a variety of domains](/send-notifications/tracking#link-click-tracking-domains) for link tracking, short links in SMS and WhatsApp, and email open tracking. We also use the `p.knock.app` domain for the hosted preference center.

These domains are shared across all accounts and are not configurable. Custom domains enable you to override these defaults and use your own domains.
```

  }
/>

> To set up a custom domain, navigate to the **Custom domains** page under **Account** in your Knock dashboard. Add a domain from the tracked links section or the **Preference center** section, depending on what you need.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up a custom domain, navigate to the <a href="https://dashboard.knock.app/~/settings/domains" target="_blank">**Domains**</a> page under the **Account** section of your Knock dashboard settings. Add a domain to the tracked links or preference center section, depending on what you'd like to configure.
```

Just a note that I edited the "under Account" language to be a bit closer to the original, because the click path to get here is:
- open settings toggle in upper right
- click "Settings"
- "Domains" is listed under the "Account" header but you don't actually click on Account. 

Agree that the original is too wordy and a bit confusing. Hopefully the direct link helps even more than the clarification.

Once set, you can click the "Verify domain" button to verify the domain and that the DNS records are pointing to the correct value. Please note that it can take up to 48 hours for the DNS changes to propagate.

> The **Custom domains** page has two sections: one for tracked links and one for the [hosted preference center](/preferences/hosted-preference-center). The setup flow differs between them.

Reviewer: The way this is phrased, it feels like something that belongs at the top of the page if we include it at all. I'm not sure it's helpful here and I prefer the original (more context below).

I'm assuming that the intent here is to differentiate between how the final configuration differs for preference center domains. I think we can have subheadings (or even just bullets) under the original "Selecting where a custom domain is used" section for "Link and open tracking" and "Preference center".

I can push some suggested changes to this branch if helpful.

## Custom domains for tracked links

After you verify a domain for tracked links, you select a use case and assign the domain to one or more [environments](/concepts/environments).

To select where a tracked link domain is used, choose the relevant option from the list of use cases and click "Apply and activate."

- **Link tracking.** These are links used for tracking link clicks within your notifications. Link tracking is used across many different channels, including email, in-app feed, SMS, and WhatsApp.
- **Short links.** These are links used for generating short links in SMS and WhatsApp messages.
- **Open tracking.** These are links used for generating a 1x1 transparent tracking pixel, currently used only within email notifications.

## Custom domains for the preference center

Preference center domains are managed in a separate section on the **Custom domains** page. They do not use the use case picker for tracked links.

> Add a domain from the **Preference center** section, set its DNS records, and verify it. Once verified, assign the domain to one or more [environments](/concepts/environments) and click "Apply." Knock automatically provisions HTTPS for verified preference center domains.

Reviewer: I don't think we need to reiterate all of the steps here, since most of them are already complete by this point. See comment above on reorganizing this a bit.

<Callout
  type="warning"
  title="Use a separate subdomain for the preference center."
  text={
    <>
      A subdomain used for the preference center can not also be used for
      tracked links, and vice versa.
    </>
  }
/>

> When a domain is assigned to an environment, `{{vars.manage_preferences_url}}` in your templates automatically uses your custom domain instead of `p.knock.app`. This does not affect `{{vars.commercial_unsubscribe_url}}`, which works independently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a domain is assigned to an environment, `{{vars.manage_preferences_url}}` in your templates automatically uses your custom domain instead of `p.knock.app`.
```
IMO we can leave this out, it feels a bit superfluous unless we anticipate that this is going to be a common point of confusion.

> Each environment can have at most one preference center custom domain, or none (in which case Knock uses `p.knock.app`). The same preference center domain can be assigned to multiple environments. To switch an environment to a different domain, verify the new domain and assign it. The previous domain is unassigned automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each environment can have at most one custom preference center domain. The same preference center domain can be assigned to multiple environments. To switch an environment to a different domain, verify the new domain and assign it. The previous domain is unassigned automatically.
```

    the domain before using it for production traffic so that it has a good
    reputation.
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="Will preference center links in already-sent messages stop working after I set a custom domain?">
    No. `p.knock.app` links in already-sent messages continue to work.
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="Will preference center links stop working if I unassign my custom domain?">
    No, as long as the domain still exists in Knock and the DNS CNAME record is
    intact. Links stop working only if you delete the domain in Knock or remove

>     or update the DNS record.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    intact. Links stop working only if you delete the domain in Knock or modify the DNS record.
```

  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="Can I switch from one preference center custom domain to another?">
    Yes. Verify the new domain and assign it to the environment. The previous
    domain is unassigned automatically. Links in already-sent messages on the
    old domain continue to work if that domain still exists in Knock and the DNS
    CNAME record is intact.
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="Does a preference center custom domain affect commercial unsubscribe links?">

>     No. `vars.commercial_unsubscribe_url` works independently and is not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    No. [Commercial unsubscribe](/preferences/commercial-unsubscribe) works independently and is not
```
